BYOC Logs: Add production best practices page (#36052)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/cloudprem/operate/best_practices.md

---
title: Production Best Practices

> description: Recommendations for running CloudPrem reliably in production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Recommendations for running CloudPrem reliably in production.
```

further_reading:
- link: "/cloudprem/operate/sizing/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Cluster Sizing"
- link: "/cloudprem/operate/monitoring/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Monitor CloudPrem"
- link: "/cloudprem/operate/troubleshooting/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Troubleshooting"
---

{{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/cloudprem/" btn_hidden="false" header="CloudPrem is in Preview" >}}

>   Join the CloudPrem Preview to access new self-hosted log management features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Join the CloudPrem Preview to use self-hosted log management features.
```

{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

> This page covers operational best practices for running CloudPrem in production. Following these recommendations helps avoid common issues encountered during deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page outlines operational best practices for running CloudPrem in production to help reduce common deployment issues.
```

> ## Enable monitoring from day one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enable monitoring from the start
```

> Set up CloudPrem monitoring **before** sending production traffic. Without monitoring, diagnosing ingestion or search issues is extremely difficult.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up CloudPrem monitoring before sending production traffic. Without monitoring, diagnosing ingestion or search issues is difficult.
```

1. Deploy the Datadog Agent (or standalone DogStatsD) in the same cluster as CloudPrem.
2. Verify that CloudPrem metrics appear in the [out-of-the-box dashboard][1].

> 3. Confirm key metrics are reporting: `indexed_events.count`, `search_requests.count`, `disk.available_space.gauge`.

Reviewer: Add "that" for parallel structure with step 2

```suggestion
3. Confirm that key metrics are reporting: `indexed_events.count`, `search_requests.count`, `disk.available_space.gauge`.
```

See [Monitor CloudPrem][2] for detailed setup instructions.

## Use the podSize Helm parameter

Always use the `indexer.podSize` and `searcher.podSize` parameters in the Helm chart instead of manually setting CPU and memory resource limits.

The `podSize` parameter automatically configures component-specific settings (cache sizes, queue limits, concurrent search settings) that are tuned for each tier. Manually setting resources without these tuned values can lead to degraded performance.

```yaml
indexer:
  podSize: xlarge   # 4 vCPUs, 16 GB RAM + tuned settings
searcher:
  podSize: 2xlarge  # 8 vCPUs, 32 GB RAM + tuned settings
```

See [Helm chart sizing tiers][3] for the full list of available sizes and their configurations.

## Configure persistent storage for indexers

Indexers use a write-ahead log (WAL) to temporarily buffer data before uploading splits to object storage. Configure persistent volumes to prevent data loss if an indexer pod restarts.

**Recommended configuration:**
- **Size:** At least 250 GB per indexer pod
- **Storage class:** Network-attached block storage (for example, `gp3` on AWS, Persistent Disk on GCP, Managed Disks on Azure)

> - **Why not local SSDs:** The WAL is not replicated. Local (ephemeral) SSDs risk losing a few minutes of data if the disk fails. Network-attached storage provides built-in redundancy.

Reviewer: Pulling out third bullet b/c it's not parallel with the rest. 

```suggestion

Note: Local SSDs are not recommended because the WAL is not replicated. Ephemeral disks can result in data loss if the disk fails. Use network-attached storage for built-in redundancy.
```

Example Helm values:
```yaml
indexer:
  persistentVolume:
    enabled: true
    storage: 250Gi
    storageClass: gp3
```

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Running indexers without persistent volumes may cause data loss during pod restarts or node failures. Always enable persistent storage for production deployments.
</div>

## Monitor disk capacity on indexers

Indexer disk usage grows as the WAL accumulates data and during merge operations. If disk space runs out, indexers stop ingesting logs.

> - Set up an alert on `disk.available_space.gauge` to notify when available space drops below 20% of total capacity.

Reviewer: "to notify when" is a bit awkward

```suggestion
- Set up an alert on `disk.available_space.gauge` that notifies you when available space drops below 20% of total capacity.
```

> - Monitor `pending_merge_ops.gauge` — a growing backlog of pending merges can indicate indexers are falling behind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Monitor `pending_merge_ops.gauge`. A growing backlog of pending merges can indicate indexers are falling behind.
```

## Scale searchers based on your query patterns

> Searcher sizing depends more on how you query than how much you ingest:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Searcher sizing depends more on query patterns than ingestion volume:
```

> - **Term searches** (for example, `status:error AND service:web`): Lower resource requirements.
> - **Aggregation queries** (timeseries, top lists, percentiles): Higher CPU and memory requirements, especially over multi-day time ranges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Term searches** (for example, `status:error AND service:web`): Lower resource requirements
- **Aggregation queries** (timeseries, top lists, percentiles): Higher CPU and memory requirements, especially for multi-day time ranges
```

> If you observe search timeouts or slow dashboard loads:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you observe search timeouts or slow dashboard loads, adjust capacity:
```

1. Increase the number of searcher pods.

> 2. Use a larger `searcher.podSize` for more memory per pod (helpful for aggregation-heavy workloads).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use a larger `searcher.podSize` for more memory per pod (especially for aggregation-heavy workloads).
```

> ## Use Lambda search offloading to optimize search infrastructure (AWS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use Lambda search offloading on AWS
```

> On AWS, CloudPrem can offload leaf search operations to AWS Lambda. Instead of provisioning enough searcher pods to handle peak query load, Lambda functions handle overflow automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On AWS, CloudPrem can offload leaf search operations to AWS Lambda. Instead of provisioning searcher pods for peak query load, Lambda handles overflow automatically.
```

This is useful when:

> - Your query load has significant peaks (for example, during incidents or business hours).
> - You want to avoid over-provisioning searchers for occasional heavy aggregation queries.
> - You want to search over large time ranges without adding permanent searcher capacity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your query load has significant peaks (for example, during incidents or business hours)
- You want to avoid over-provisioning searchers for occasional heavy aggregation queries
- You want to search over large time ranges without adding permanent searcher capacity
```

With Lambda offloading enabled, you can run fewer searcher pods sized for your baseline query load, and let Lambda absorb spikes. See [Lambda Search Offloading][4] for setup instructions.

## Keep your Helm chart version up to date

CloudPrem improvements and bug fixes are delivered through Helm chart updates.

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/dashboard/lists?q=cloudprem&p=1

Reviewer: This URL returns HTTP 404. Replace with the correct dashboard link.

Author: oh indeed. This one is working https://app.datadoghq.com/dashboard/lists?q=byoc&p=1

See [Monitor CloudPrem][2] for detailed setup instructions.

## Use the podSize Helm parameter

Always use the `indexer.podSize` and `searcher.podSize` parameters in the Helm chart instead of manually setting CPU and memory resource limits.

The `podSize` parameter automatically configures component-specific settings (cache sizes, queue limits, concurrent search settings) that are tuned for each tier. Manually setting resources without these tuned values can lead to degraded performance.

```yaml
indexer:
  podSize: xlarge   # 4 vCPUs, 16 GB RAM + tuned settings
searcher:
  podSize: 2xlarge  # 8 vCPUs, 32 GB RAM + tuned settings
```

See [Helm chart sizing tiers][3] for the full list of available sizes and their configurations.

## Configure persistent storage for indexers

Indexers use a write-ahead log (WAL) to temporarily buffer data before uploading splits to object storage. Configure persistent volumes to prevent data loss if an indexer pod restarts.

**Recommended configuration:**
- **Size:** At least 250 GB per indexer pod
- **Storage class:** Network-attached block storage (for example, `gp3` on AWS, Persistent Disk on GCP, Managed Disks on Azure)

> Note: Local SSDs are not recommended because the WAL is not replicated. Ephemeral disks can result in data loss if the disk fails. Use network-attached storage for built-in redundancy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Local SSDs are not recommended because the WAL is not replicated. Ephemeral disks can result in data loss if the disk fails. Use network-attached storage for built-in redundancy.
```

- **Term searches** (for example, `status:error AND service:web`): Lower resource requirements
- **Aggregation queries** (timeseries, top lists, percentiles): Higher CPU and memory requirements, especially for multi-day time ranges

If you observe search timeouts or slow dashboard loads, adjust capacity:
1. Increase the number of searcher pods.
2. Use a larger `searcher.podSize` for more memory per pod (especially for aggregation-heavy workloads).

## Use Lambda search offloading on AWS

On AWS, CloudPrem can offload leaf search operations to AWS Lambda. Instead of provisioning searcher pods for peak query load, Lambda handles overflow automatically.

This is useful when:
- Your query load has significant peaks (for example, during incidents or business hours)
- You want to avoid over-provisioning searchers for occasional heavy aggregation queries
- You want to search over large time ranges without adding permanent searcher capacity

With Lambda offloading enabled, you can run fewer searcher pods sized for your baseline query load, and let Lambda absorb spikes. See [Lambda Search Offloading][4] for setup instructions.

## Keep your Helm chart version up to date

> CloudPrem improvements and bug fixes are delivered through Helm chart updates.

Reviewer: Is there an action we can add here? 

E.g. a helm repo update snippet, a pointer to release notes, or a recommended update cadence?

## Further reading

{{< partial name="whats-next/whats-next.html" >}}

> [1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/dashboard/lists?q=cloudprem&p=1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/dashboard/lists?q=byoc&p=1
```
